<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en"> 
<head><title>Preface</title> 
<meta charset="UTF-8" /> 
<meta name="generator" content="TeX4ht (http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/TeX4ht/)" /> 
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="linearprogrammingepub.css" /> 
</head><body 
>
<!--l. 1--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
<h2 class="likechapterHead"><a 
 id="x3-2000>\c@secnumdepth "></a>Preface</h2>
<p class="noindent">This entire book is a working manuscript. The first draft of the book is yet to be completed.
</p> 
<p class="indent">This book is being written and compiled using a number of open source materials. We will strive to properly cite
all resources used and give references on where to find these resources. Although the material used in this book
comes from a variety of licences, everything used here will be CC-BY-SA 4.0 compatible, and hence, the entire
book will fall under a CC-BY-SA 4.0 license.
</p> 

<div class="center" 
>
<p class="indent">
</p> 
<p class="indent"><span id="textcolor1"><span 
class="ptmb8t-x-x-140">MAJOR ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</span></span></p> 
</div>
<p class="indent">I would like to acknowledge that substantial parts of this book were borrowed under a CC-BY-SA license. These
substantial pieces include: </p> 

      <ul class="itemize1">
      <li class="itemize">&#x0022;A  First  Course  in  Linear  Algebra&#x0022;  by  Lyryx  Learning  (based  on  original  text  by  Ken  Kuttler).
      A majority of their formatting was used along with selected sections that make up the appendix
      sections on linear algebra. We are extremely grateful to Lyryx for sharing their files with us. They do
      an amazing job compiling their books and the templates and formatting that we have borrowed here
      clearly took a lot of work to set up. Thank you for sharing all of this material to make structuring
      and formating this book much easier! See subsequent page for list of contributors.
      </li>
      <li class="itemize">&#x0022;Foundations                                  of                                  Applied                                  Mathmatics&#x0022;
      with  many  contributors.  See  <a 
href="https://github.com/Foundations-of-Applied-Mathematics" class="url" ><span 
class="ectt-1200">https://github.com/Foundations-of-Applied-Mathematics</span></a>.
      Several  sections  from  these  notes  were  used  along  with  some  formatting.  Some  of  this  content
      has been edited or rearranged to suit the needs of this book. This content comes with some great
      references to code and nice formatting to present code within the book. See subsequent page with
      list of contributors.
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
      </li>
      <li class="itemize">&#x0022;Linear            Inequalities            and            Linear            Programming&#x0022;            by            Kevin
      Cheung. See <a 
href="https://github.com/dataopt/lineqlpbook" class="url" ><span 
class="ectt-1200">https://github.com/dataopt/lineqlpbook</span></a>. These notes are posted on GitHub in
      a &#x0022;.Rmd&#x0022; format for nice reading online. This content was converted to <span class="LATEX">L<span class="A">A</span><span class="TEX">T<span 
class="E">E</span>X</span></span>using Pandoc. These
      notes make up a substantial section of the Linear Programming part of this book.
      </li>
      <li class="itemize">Linear Programming notes by Douglas Bish. These notes also make up a substantial section of the
      Linear Programming part of this book.</li></ul>
<p class="indent">I would also like to acknowledge Laurent Porrier and Diego Moran for contributing various notes on linear and
integer programming.
</p> 
<p class="indent">I would also like to thank Jamie Fravel for helping to edit this book and for contributing chapters, examples, and
code.
</p> 
<p class="indent">
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
</p> 
<p class="indent">
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
</p> 
<p class="indent"><a 
 id="likesection.1"></a><a 
 id="Q1-3-3"></a>
                                                                                                
                                                                                                
</p> 
<!--l. 31--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
 
</body> 
</html>