<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US"> 
<head><title>Preface</title> 
<meta charset="UTF-8" /> 
<meta name="generator" content="TeX4ht (http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/TeX4ht/)" /> 
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="book1-epub.css" /> 
</head><body 
>
   <!--l. 1--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
   <h2 class="likechapterHead"><a 
 id="x2-1000"></a>Preface   </h2>
<p class="noindent">This book is a living document. Feedback, questions, comments, and edits are
welcome at <a 
href="mailto:open.optimization@gmail.com" >open.optimization@gmail.com</a>.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   This book is being written and compiled using a number of open source
materials. We will strive to properly cite all resources used and give references
on where to find these resources. Although the material used in this book
comes from a variety of licenses, everything used here will be CC-BY-SA
4.0 compatible, and hence, the entire book will fall under a CC-BY-SA 4.0
license.
   </p> 

<div class="center" 
>
<p class="indent">
</p> 
<p class="indent"><span id="textcolor1"><span 
class="ecbx-1440">MAJOR ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS</span></span></p> 
</div>
<p class="indent">   I would like to acknowledge that substantial parts of this book were adapted from
the following open-source materials. All content used is compatible with the
CC BY-SA 4.0 license of this book.
   </p> 

     <ul class="itemize1">
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">“A First Course in Linear Algebra” </span>by Lyryx Learning (based on
     original text by Ken Kuttler), licensed under <span 
class="ecbx-1000">CC</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> BY</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> 4.0</span>. A majority of
     their formatting was used along with selected sections that make up the
     appendix sections on linear algebra. We are extremely grateful to Lyryx for
     sharing their files with us. They do an amazing job compiling their books,
     and the templates and formatting that we have borrowed here clearly took
     a lot of work to set up. Thank you for sharing all of this material to make
     structuring and formatting this book much easier! See subsequent page
     for list of contributors.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">“Foundations  of  Applied  Mathematics”  </span>with  many  contributors,
     licensed                under                <span 
class="ecbx-1000">CC</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> BY</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> 3.0</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> US</span>.                See
                                                                  

                                                                  
     <a 
href="https://github.com/Foundations-of-Applied-Mathematics" class="url" ><span 
class="ectt-1000">https://github.com/Foundations-of-Applied-Mathematics</span></a>.  Several
     sections from these notes were used along with some formatting. Some
     of this content has been edited or rearranged to suit the needs of this
     book. This content comes with some great references to code and nice
     formatting to present code within the book. See subsequent page with list
     of contributors.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">“Linear Inequalities and Linear Programming” </span>by Kevin Cheung,
     licensed                           under                           <span 
class="ecbx-1000">CC</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> BY-SA</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> 4.0</span>.
     See <a 
href="https://github.com/dataopt/lineqlpbook" class="url" ><span 
class="ectt-1000">https://github.com/dataopt/lineqlpbook</span></a>. These notes are posted
     on GitHub in a “.Rmd” format for nice reading online. This content was
     converted to LaTeX using Pandoc. These notes make up a substantial
     section of the Linear Programming part of this book.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Linear Programming notes </span>by Douglas Bish. These notes also make
     up a substantial section of the Linear Programming part of this book.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">“Applied Finite Mathematics” </span>by Rupinder Sekhon and Roberta Bloom,
     licensed under <span 
class="ecbx-1000">CC</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> BY</span><span 
class="ecbx-1000"> 4.0</span>. See <a 
href="https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Applied_Mathematics/Applied_Finite_Mathematics_(Sekhon_and_Bloom)" class="url" ><span 
class="ectt-1000">https://math.libretexts.org/Bookshelves/Applied_Mathematics/Applied_Finite_Mathematics_(Sekhon_and_Bloom)</span></a>.
     Content from Chapter 1 (Linear Equations) was adapted for the appendix
     on linear equations.</p> 
</li></ul>
<p class="indent">   I would also like to acknowledge Laurent Poirrier and Diego Moran for
contributing various notes on linear and integer programming.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   I would also like to thank Jamie Fravel for helping to edit this book and for
contributing chapters, examples, and code.
</p> 
<p class="indent">
                                                                  

                                                                  
                                                                  

                                                                  
   </p> 
<!--l. 1--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
    
</body> 
</html>