<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US"> 
<head><title>Introduction</title> 
<meta charset="UTF-8" /> 
<meta name="generator" content="TeX4ht (http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/TeX4ht/)" /> 
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="book1-epub.css" /> 
</head><body 
>
   <!--l. 2--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
   <h2 class="likechapterHead"><a 
 id="x7-31000"></a>Introduction   </h2>
   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x7-32000"></a>Letter to instructors </h3>
<p class="noindent">This is an introductory book for students to learn optimization theory, tools, and
applications. The two main goals are (1) students are able to apply the tools of
optimization in their future work or research, and (2) students understand the
concepts underlying optimization solvers and use this knowledge to use solvers
effectively.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   This book was based on a sequence of courses at Virginia Tech in the Industrial
and Systems Engineering Department. The courses are <span 
class="ecti-1000">Deterministic Operations</span>
<span 
class="ecti-1000">Research I </span>and <span 
class="ecti-1000">Deterministic Operations Research II</span>. The first course focuses on
linear programming, while the second course covers integer programming and
nonlinear programming. As such, the content in this book is meant to cover 2 or
more full courses in optimization.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   The book is designed to be read in a linear fashion. That said, many of the
chapters are mostly independent and could be rearranged, removed, or shortened as
desired. This is an open source textbook, so use it as you like. You are encouraged
to share adaptations and improvements so that this work can evolve over
time.
   </p> 

<p class="noindent"><span class="paragraphHead"><a 
 id="x7-33000"></a><span 
class="ecbx-1000">On the simplex method. </span></span>
   This book presents the simplex method three ways, in three chapters: the
<span 
class="ecti-1000">dictionary </span>version, the <span 
class="ecti-1000">algebraic </span>(matrix) version, and the <span 
class="ecti-1000">tableau </span>version. As a
teacher, you may choose to teach all of these, some of them, or even just one. I have
always felt that the dictionary version is the clearest picture of what is actually
happening; some of that understanding just doesn’t seem to translate to students
when working through tableaus. On the other hand, students tend to like
the simpler row operations of the tableau. The matrix version supplies the
linear algebra underneath both and connects most directly to how solvers are
implemented. Any one of the three is enough to continue through the rest of the
book.
                                                                  

                                                                  
   </p> 

<p class="noindent"><span class="paragraphHead"><a 
 id="x7-34000"></a><span 
class="ecbx-1000">On software. </span></span>
   Excel is a nice tool for solving simple linear programs, and it can be a comfortable
place for students to set up and solve their first few models. But since the arrival of
AI assistants, modeling and coding in Python has become so much easier, and AI is
transforming modeling itself, toward communicating constraints in plain text.
Unfortunately, it is difficult to use AI to build these models in Excel. So, candidly, it
is unclear to me at this time what the most useful tool to teach is. The
book provides examples in both, so you can weight them however suits your
course.
</p> 
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x7-35000"></a>Letter to students </h3>
<p class="noindent">This book is designed to be a resource for students interested in learning what
optimization is, how it works, and how you can apply it in your future career. The
main focus is being able to apply the techniques of optimization to problems using
computer technology while understanding (at least at a high level) what
the computer is doing and what you can claim about the output from the
computer.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   Quite importantly, keep in mind that when someone claims to have <span 
class="ecti-1000">optimized </span>a
problem, we want to know what kind of guarantees they have about how good their
solution is. Far too often, the solution that is provided is suboptimal by 10%, 20%, or
even more. This can mean spending excess amounts of money, time, or energy that
could have been saved. And when problems are at a large scale, this can easily result
in millions of dollars in savings.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   For this reason, we will learn the perspective of <span 
class="ecti-1000">mathematical programming </span>(a.k.a.
mathematical optimization). The key to this study is that we provide guarantees on
how good a solution is to a given problem. We will also study how difficult a
problem is to solve. This will help us know (a) how long it might take to solve
it and (b) how good of a solution we might expect to be able to find in a
reasonable amount of time. We will later study <span 
class="ecti-1000">heuristic </span>methods - these
methods typically do not come with guarantees, but tend to help find quality
solutions.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   Note: Although there is some computer programming required in this work, this is
not a book on programming. Thanks to the fantastic modeling packages
available these days, we are able to solve complicated problems with little
programming effort. The key skill we will need to learn is <span 
class="ecti-1000">mathematical</span>
<span 
class="ecti-1000">modeling</span>: converting words and ideas into numbers and variables in order to
communicate problems to a computer so that it can solve a problem for
you.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   As a main element of this book, we would like to make the process of using code
and software as easy as possible. Attached to most examples in the book, there will
be links to code that implements and solves the problem using several different tools
                                                                  

                                                                  
from Excel and Python. These examples should make it easy to solve a similar
problem with different data, or more generally, can serve as a basis for solving related
problems with similar structure.
</p> 
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h5 class="likesubsubsectionHead"><a 
 id="x7-36000"></a>How to use this book </h5>
<p class="noindent"><span 
class="ecti-1000">Skim ahead. </span>We recommend that before you come across a topic in lecture, you skim
the relevant sections ahead of time to get a broad overview of what is to come.
This may take only a fraction of the time that it may take for you to read
it.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   <span 
class="ecti-1000">Read the expected outcomes. </span>At the beginning of each section, there will be a list
of expected outcomes from that section. Review these outcomes before reading the
section to help guide you through what is most relevant for you to take away from
the material. This will also provide a brief look into what is to follow in that
section.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   <span 
class="ecti-1000">Read the text. </span>Read carefully the text to understand the problems and techniques.
We will try to provide many examples; depending on your understanding of a topic,
you may need to go carefully over all of the examples.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   <span 
class="ecti-1000">Do the exercises. </span>Each chapter ends with a graded exercise section: <span 
class="ecti-1000">Warm-ups </span>drill
one skill and name the worked example they mirror, <span 
class="ecti-1000">Core problems </span>are full modeling
and computation problems, <span 
class="ecti-1000">Concepts and connections </span>ask you to explain why things
work, and <span 
class="ecti-1000">Challenge problems </span>stretch beyond the chapter. Difficulty is marked with
stars (<!--l. 37--><math 
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"  
display="inline" >  <mo 
class="MathClass-bin">⋆</mo></math>
to <!--l. 37--><math 
 xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1998/Math/MathML"  
display="inline" >  <mo 
class="MathClass-bin">⋆</mo> <mo 
class="MathClass-bin">⋆</mo><mo 
class="MathClass-bin">⋆</mo></math>),
and each exercise ends with a small gray tag pointing to the section or example to
review if you get stuck. Selected solutions appear at the end of each exercise section;
try the problem before reading them.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   <span 
class="ecti-1000">Explore the resources. </span>Lastly, we recognize that there are many alternative
methods of learning given the massive amounts of information and resources online.
Thus, at the end of each section, there will be a number of superb resources that are
available on the internet in different formats. There are other free textbooks,
informational websites, and also a number of fantastic videos posted to YouTube. We
encourage you to explore the resources to get another perspective on the material
or to hear/read it taught from a different point of view or in presentation
style.
</p> 
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h5 class="likesubsubsectionHead"><a 
 id="x7-37000"></a>Outline of this book </h5>
<p class="noindent">This book is divided into 3 Parts:
</p> 
<p class="indent">
                                                                  

                                                                  
     </p> 
<dl class="enumerate-enumitem"><dt class="enumerate-enumitem">
Part I </dt><dd 
class="enumerate-enumitem">Linear Programming,
     </dd><dt class="enumerate-enumitem">
Part II </dt><dd 
class="enumerate-enumitem">Discrete Algorithms,
     </dd><dt class="enumerate-enumitem">
Part III </dt><dd 
class="enumerate-enumitem">Introduction to Integer Programming.</dd></dl>
<p class="noindent">There are also a number of chapters of background material in the Appendix. Additional
topics, including advanced integer programming and nonlinear programming, are
covered in Book 2.
                                                                  

                                                                  
   </p> 
<!--l. 10--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
    
</body> 
</html>