<!DOCTYPE html> 
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="en-US"> 
<head><title>Use of Generative AI</title> 
<meta charset="UTF-8" /> 
<meta name="generator" content="TeX4ht (http://www.cse.ohio-state.edu/~gurari/TeX4ht/)" /> 
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="book1-epub.css" /> 
</head><body 
>
   <!--l. 1--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
   <h2 class="likechapterHead"><a 
 id="x4-15000"></a>Use of Generative AI   </h2>
<a 
 id="Q1-4-17"></a>
<p class="noindent">In keeping with current best practices for open educational resources, this chapter
discloses how generative artificial intelligence (AI) was used in the preparation of this
book.
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-16000"></a>Authorship </h3>
<p class="noindent">The mathematical content, structure, examples, exercises, proofs, and pedagogical
decisions in this book are the work of Robert Hildebrand and the contributors
named in the Acknowledgements and Sources and Attribution sections. AI
was used as a writing-assistance and production tool, not as an author.
The author has reviewed, verified, and edited all material that AI assisted
with.
</p> 
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-17000"></a>What AI Was Used For </h3>
<p class="noindent">Generative AI assistants (primarily large language models) were used during
preparation of this book for the following kinds of tasks:
   </p> 

     <ul class="itemize1">
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Editing and copy-editing </span>of expository prose for clarity, grammar, and
     consistency of voice.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Drafting  boilerplate  text  </span>such  as  license-compatibility  summaries,
     attribution notices, accessibility metadata, and chapter-opening framing
     paragraphs, which the author then revised.
                                                                  

                                                                  
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Generating draft alt-text descriptions </span>for figures, which the author
     reviewed and edited for mathematical accuracy.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Formatting assistance with LaTeX</span>: generating <span 
class="ectt-1000">tikz </span>skeletons, fixing
     macro definitions, restructuring tables, debugging compilation errors.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Code-comment and example-code drafting </span>in Python and Julia. All
     numerical examples and code were independently verified by running the
     code and checking results.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">License-audit assistance</span>: cross-checking source license compatibility,
     drafting license notices, identifying figures or text passages that needed
     re-attribution or rewriting.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent"><span 
class="ecbx-1000">Proofreading and consistency checks </span>across notation used in different
     chapters.</p> 
</li></ul>
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-18000"></a>What AI Was Not Used For </h3>
<p class="noindent">Generative AI was not used to:
   </p> 

     <ul class="itemize1">
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">Generate or fabricate mathematical claims, proofs, theorems, or numerical
     results that were not independently verified by the author.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">Produce final figures used in the published book without review. All TikZ
     figures were authored by hand or generated by AI and then reviewed and
     corrected.
                                                                  

                                                                  
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">Generate exercise solutions without verification.
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">Make pedagogical decisions about scope, sequencing, or emphasis. Those
     decisions are the author’s.</p> 
</li></ul>
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-19000"></a>Example Prompt Types </h3>
<p class="noindent">To give readers and reviewers a concrete sense of how AI was engaged, the following
are representative prompt patterns that were used during preparation:
   </p> 

     <ul class="itemize1">
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">“Rewrite   this   paragraph   to   improve   clarity   without   changing   its
     mathematical content.”
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">“Generate a one-sentence alt-text description of the following TikZ figure
     that conveys both its visual layout and its mathematical meaning.”
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">“Verify  that  this  CC BY 3.0  source  can  be  incorporated  into  a
     CC BY-SA 4.0 work and explain the compatibility mechanism.”
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">“Draft a Python example using the <span 
class="ectt-1000">pyomo </span>package that solves the following
     linear program; do not invent solver options you are not certain exist.”
     </p> 
</li>
     <li class="itemize">
     <p class="indent">“Identify any LaTeX macros referenced but not defined in this file and
     propose corrections.”</p> 
</li></ul>
                                                                  

                                                                  
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-20000"></a>Verification and Accountability </h3>
<p class="noindent">All AI-assisted contributions were reviewed by the author. Numerical examples were
verified by running code and, where appropriate, by independent computation in
tools such as <span 
class="ectt-1000">scipy.optimize </span>and <span 
class="ectt-1000">Gurobi</span>. The mathematical correctness of every
statement, proof, and example in this book is the author’s responsibility.
</p> 
<p class="indent">   Readers who suspect an error (whether it was AI-introduced or not) are
encouraged to report it via the project’s GitHub issue tracker or by emailing
<span 
class="ectt-1000">open.optimization@gmail.com</span>. Errata will be acknowledged in the book’s revision
history.
</p> 
<p class="noindent">
   </p> 

   <h3 class="likesectionHead"><a 
 id="x4-21000"></a>Disclosure Standard </h3>
<p class="noindent">This disclosure follows the principles set out by Virginia Tech Publishing’s open
educational resources program and is consistent with emerging norms across the OER
community: AI assistance is acceptable in production of open educational materials
when (i) the human author remains responsible for content and accuracy, (ii) AI is
not listed as an author, and (iii) the use of AI is disclosed transparently in the
published work.
                                                                  

                                                                  
                                                                  

                                                                  
   </p> 
<!--l. 22--><div class="crosslinks"><p class="noindent"></p></div>
    
</body> 
</html>